Add March 2026 Council update (#1832)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: content/inside-rust/leadership-council-update@10.md

[Mara Bos]: https://github.com/m-ou-se/
[launching pad]: https://forge.rust-lang.org/governance/council.html#the-launching-pad-top-level-team
[libs team]: https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/library
[Josh Triplett]: https://github.com/joshtriplett/
[Rémy Rakic]: https://github.com/lqd/
[compiler team]: https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/compiler
[Eric Huss]: https://github.com/ehuss/
[dev tools team]: https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/dev-tools
[James Munns]: https://github.com/jamesmunns
[Josh Stone]: https://github.com/cuviper/

### Welcome Nurzhan Saken as our second Program Manager

In February we welcomed [Nurzhan Saken] as our second Program Manager joining [Tomas Sedovic]. This will help make our PM program more sustainable and strengthen the support it provides. You can read more about Nurzhan in [the recent PM update](https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2026/03/27/program-management-update-2026-02/#hello-from-nurzhan).

[Nurzhan Saken]: https://github.com/nxsaken/
[Tomas Sedovic]: https://github.com/tomassedovic/

### Project priorities budget

> The Foundation approved a budget of $650,000 (USD) for the Project to spend at their discretion in 2026. For the past several months the Council has been working on allocating towards various priorities. The following items have been approved:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since 2024, the Project has managed a *Project Priorities* budget. The council spends funds from this budget on activities that support the work of the Project. At the start of 2026, the Foundation allocated to this budget $306k (USD) in new funds and transferred $106k in remaining funds from the Project Grants program. For the past several months the Council has been working on allocating towards various priorities. The following items have been approved:
```

There are other ways this could be said; the point is that I worry stating the $650k figure alone may give a mistaken impression given that much of this is carryover of funds we'd already allocated.

- Clarified that the mentor team doesn't need to ask the Council to participate in [GSoC 2026](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2026). [#253](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/253)
- The Foundation has updated the process for travel grant applications. [#259](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/259)
- Approved a proposal for delegating guest invites for the All-Hands. [#252](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/252)

## Ongoing work

### Rust Foundation Maintainers Fund

In December we formed a committee ([#248](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/248)) to put together a proposal to define how to use the funds from the [Rust Foundation Maintainer Fund](https://rustfoundation.org/media/announcing-the-rust-foundation-maintainers-fund/). The RFMF is a dedicated fund used to support Rust Project maintainers.

The team has been working very hard on a proposal which is now open for comments at [RFC#3931](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3931).

### Contribution policy

> A lively discussion has been taking place around adopting a policy for low-effort contributions, particularly those involving AI assistance ([#273](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/273)). A second proposal was submitted and has since moved to [RFC#3936](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3936) to gather comments from the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A lively discussion has been taking place around adopting an interim policy for AI contributions ([#273](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/273)). A second proposal was submitted and has since moved to [RFC#3936](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3936) to gather comments from the project. Further proposals, drafting, and discussion are ongoing.
```

Author: Thanks Josh! I do like your proposal, but I kinda still want to have this section filled out with at least a little detail since this is such an important topic.

I pushed a commit to try to incorporate some of this feedback. I was also informed by lqd (thanks!) that I was wrong about the interim aspect, so I went ahead and put that in.

Reviewer 2: @ehuss The current state as of your last commit ([8a74b7d](https://github.com/rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org/pull/1832/commits/8a74b7de186054f27dc8f9823ea13dda01eda3b7)) is a substantial improvement, thank you.

My primary goals, here, were:
- To avoid furthering the "low-effort" framing (which even that RFC has since abandoned in favor of *another* different framing, which still seems to be avoiding just saying "policy about AI contributions"). That's now been addressed, and the summary here now says "policy for AI contributions"; thank you.
- To capture that there is a *lot* of active discussion going on here, and it's very much coming to a middle rather than an end. I appreciate that this is a section on ongoing work, but the linked RFC initially started out by kicking off an immediate FCP and taking a discouraging stance towards feedback, and it would have been easy to read this link to it as furthering that stance. I think that the new sentence you added ("This is an important question for the Project, and we expect this to continue to be a focus in the near term as we continue discussions and consider different proposals."), as well as the inclusion of "interim" ("an interim policy for AI contributions"), addresses that concern as well. This now feels more consistent with the idea of trying to deal with the massive problem of slop in the short-term, while still having ongoing discussions on the rest of the problem.

Based on that, I think your current changes largely address my concern. At this point, the only thing I would tweak would be the minor addition of explaining some rationale for *why* we're working on an interim policy, namely that we're dealing with a wave of slop/vibecoding. (This is something that some of those of us in the project are aware of, but folks who read these updates may not be.)

I've posted a small suggestion to that effect, and I'm marking this thread as resolved. Thank you for the updates!
